# Dev Diary #1: MoshPack Introduction
11/5/20

## What is the MoshPack?

The MoshPack will be made with the following in mind:

- **Every included mod will directly be focused on automation.**
This will not apply to helper mods like JEI.
- **There will be no more than 10 mods in the pack.**
This will ensure that the pack is simple enough to understand without a complex system of in-game quests. This number will likely not include helper mods like JEI.
- **No mods will be added that trivialize any aspect of the early or mid game**
- **Recipes will be adjusted, but should nothing shoulf feel like a slog to get**
Players shouldn't have to get a stockpile of diamonds before doing any automation, nor should they have to access the End before having a decent setup going.

## Why Make A Minecraft Modpack?

My introduction to modded Minecraft was probably the YouTube let's play series called [My Buildcraft](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLE470316C0C6AD1A4) by [Chemdork123](https://www.youtube.com/user/chemdork123). The automation aspect of Buildcraft and the interesting solutions using it that Chemdork was able to come up with really spoke to the engineer in me. I downloaded and tried the mod and really enjoyed it. Since then I've tried many different modpacks and mods. I have also played games inspired by modded minecraft like [Factorio](https://factorio.com/), [Big Pharma](https://www.bigpharmagame.com/), [Automachef](https://www.automachef.com/), and [Satisfactory](https://www.satisfactorygame.com/).

After playing these mods and games, I realized some issues with the modded Minecraft I had been playing:

- No individual mod really *did it* for me
- Some mods are too overpowered for me e.g. EnderIO
- Every modpack has way too many mods for me
- Expert style modpacks go too far in making adjusted recipes more expensive

So, given my experience in software development and an interest in the subject, I decided to make my own modpack that fixed these issues.

## Initial Mod List

With the guiding principles from the previous section in mind, here is the initial mod list I had in mind:

Main mods:

- [Immersive Engineering](#immersive-engineering)
- [Forestry](#forestry)
- [Tinker's Tools](#tinkers-tools)
- [Botania](#botania)
- [Thermal Expansion](#thermal-expansion)
- [Applied Energistics](#applied-energistics)
- [Mekanism](#mekanism)
- [Pam's Harvestcraft](#pams-spice-of-life-and-cooking-for-blockheads)

Helper mods:

- [Spice of Life](#pams-spice-of-life-and-cooking-for-blockheads)
- [Cooking for Blockheads](#pams-spice-of-life-and-cooking-for-blockheads)
- [Storage Drawers](#storage-drawers)
- [Biomes O Plenty](#biomes-o-plenty)
- [Journey Map](#journey-map)
- [MiniCoal](#minicoal)
- [Waila](#waila)
- [JEI](#jei)
- [Villager Market](#villager-market)
- [Farming for Blockheads](#farming-for-blockheads)

You may notice that Buildcraft is not in the list. I love Buildcraft for introducing me to the world of modded Minecraft, but I feel like there are other mods that, when combined, do everything Buildcraft does, but much better. Any other notable additions are because I think the mod is overpowered, out of scope, or maybe I've just never played it.

The following sections will go into detail about why I want to add each mod.

### Immersive Engineering

IE has quickly become my favorite mod. I find that the massive size of the machines, the wires that look and act like actual wires, and the general aesthetic are exactly what I'm looking for in an automation based modded Minecraft. I find the mod to be generally well balanced and paced, although at the time of writing I'm not sure how I feel about the locking of the critical steel production behind the Nether.

I plan on locking production of machines from the other tech mods behind IE's steel production, and removing machines from other mods that serve the exact same purpose as IE machines. The major exception here is the farming cloche thing. I find that to be super OP and it will almost certainly be removed in favor of Forestry.

You can consider IE to effectively be the star of the show for the MoshPack.

### Forestry

You can thank Chemdork for this one. In his [second season of My Buildcraft](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb8lj2ziBwwwsHVhOqz09k9s_Df_boVll) he added forestry to his mod list. I really like the progression of farming automation it has. The multiblock farm is a fantastic look, and I think its massive size fits well with the machines from IE. The complexity of crafting using the carpenter and thermionic fabricator is a nice way of forcing a form of progression. So, ike many expert pack makers, I plan on using them to lock some of the more powerful machines in other mods behind that progression.

On the flipside of all that are the trees, bees, and butterflies. The tree breeding is something I plan on leaving in the pack as a sort of side activity you can pursue if you really want. As for bees and butterflies, I just don't understand them at all, and I just don't like them. I will be removing all the machines and general recipies involving bees and butterflies, and if possible I will be disabling them from spawning in worlds.

### Tinker's Tools

This mod is already being considered for removal. Tinker's seems really nice at first because the hammer, broadaxe, and end-tier materials are just so nice. I like having to melt down and cast tool materials, and the whole tool crafting process feels satisfying. Being able to repair tools is another good feature this mod adds.

Unfortunately, a mid tier hammer without upgrades pretty much invalidates the powered/feuled drills that many mods, including IE, have. If this mod stays, rebalancing the hammer would be the top priority, if not just outright removing it. After that, ore doubling and alloying in the smelter would be disabled in favor of the crusher and alloy kiln from IE.

### Botania

I'm on the fence on this mod. On the surface, it's a magic mod, and therefore not suited to this pack. However, as the manual for this mod tells you, it's really an automation mod. It offers some really nice ways for transmuting items, there are a lot of interesting ways to generate mana, and offers a vouple new materials to play around with.

I will have to see how it feels after some playtesting. My thoughts are it will feel redundent and therefore end up being removed.

### Thermal Expansion

Another mod curtesy of [season 2 of My Buildcraft](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLb8lj2ziBwwwsHVhOqz09k9s_Df_boVll). Thermal Expansion used to be my favorite mod. The machines and UI are very clean and simple, and the piping system is my favorite one of any mod I've played. It has a lot of redundencies with IE and Mekanism, but at a minimum I plan on using the pipes in the mid/late game.

### Applied Energistics

Storage is one of the biggest issues with vanilla Minecraft in my opinion. Therefore, any modpack should have some kind of modded storage solution. The two biggest names in modded storage solutions are Applied Energistics and Refined Storage. I prefer AE becuase I think RS is a bit too easy. The automation features are very powerful, but I think they are acceptably so for the late game.

### Mekanism

Mekanism has the best ore multiplication of any mod I've tried. The main reason it's in this pack is for that reason, and I plan on having Mekanism's ore multiplication progress throughout the mid game and into the late game. Other features of the mod will likely be cut in favor of their IE and TE counterparts, although I really do like the look and sounds of Mekanism's machines.

### Pam's, Spice of Life, and Cooking for Blockheads

These 3 mods are grouped together because individually they don't really fit the mod, but together they do. Pam's Harvestcraft adds a whole bunch of crops and foods, Spice of Life forces players to eat different kinds of food, and Cooking for Blockheads offers a convenient way to make food in the early game before automation is going strong. The goal here is to encourage players to set up a handful of foods to be automated and have  fast food factories similar to the game Automachef.

### Storage Drawers

As I said in the AE section, Minecraft has a storage problem. Before players get to the point where AE is a feasible solution (and even well into the period where it is), Storage Drawers is the hero providing a place for players' 8 billion pieces of cobblestone.

### Biomes O Plenty

Biomes O Plenty just looks nice. That's it.

### Journey Map

The vanilla mapping feature kinda sucks. Journey map adds a minimap and the ability to set waypoints. I hate playing without it, so in it goes.

### MiniCoal

Mini Coal allows you to turn coal and charcoal into smaller pieces so that you don't waste them. It's a feature in Extra Utilities, but that mod is OP.

### WAILA

What Am I Looking At is a godsend for players new to a mod. It tells you what the block you are looking at is called and what mod it is from.

### JEI

Just Enough Items is absolutely necessary for any modpack that tweaks recipes. It allows players to search for items, and see all the recipes that can make that item as well as all the recipes that item is used in.

### Villager Market

This might be swapped out for a similar mod or outright removed if I can get FFB to take over its functionality. All it does is add a block players can place in a village to see all of the villagers' trades.

### Farming for Blockheads

Farming for Blockheads adds a few mostly livestock oriented farming automation features that Forestry doesn't handle. It also adds a market block that lets you buy and sell farming items which might need to be adjusted or removed for balance.
